.TH RANDPASS 1 29/March/2013
.SH NAME
randpass - generate a random password
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B randpass [-mravh] [-n<num>]
.SH AVAILABILITY
Mac OSX, Linux
.SH DESCRIPTION
randpass generates a string of characters that are suitable for use as passwords. By default, passwords are generated using letters,
symbols and numbers.
.SH NOTES
You can use randpass to spoof your MAC address. This can be useful if you want to use a public wifi network and don't want leak information about your hardware. This is an example of how to do that on a *nix machine:

First, close your existing wifi connection. Either do this manually or with a script. On a Mac running Mountain Lion you can use:

 $ sudo /System/Library/PrivateFrameworks/Apple80211.framework/Versions/A/Resources/airport -z

Then, change your MAC address using randpass. This command sets the MAC address of the en1 network connection:

 $ sudo ifconfig en1 ether $(randpass -m)

The en1 connection will typically be your WiFi, but you can check by just typing 'ifconfig'. You will then need to re-connect to the network. The network will treat your machine as a different piece of hardware and allocate you a new IP address. You MAC address will be reset if you reboot.

For more on MAC spoofing see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MAC_spoofing
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
-a
Generate a password using only alpha-numeric characters.
.TP 5
-m
Generate a random MAC address
.TP 5
-v
Display the version number
.TP 5
-h
Display usage
.TP 5
-n
.I char-num
Specify the length of the password
.TP 5
-r
Force the use of the rand() call, rather than using /dev/random or /dev/urandom. Primarily useful for testing.
.TP 5
-m
Generate a random MAC address, e.g. f2:49:b7:31:5f:0d
.SH EXAMPLES

.TP 5
Generate a random password:

 $ randpass                             
 nqkTNY4A"lG)4ss?_%`<YS'Fj:<{sz|%

.TP 5
Generate a 50 char password:

 $ randpass -n50                        
 Z$>Fh%Vu%if.O`x[RuzFV?LsirlKA4\zB%5Exq#zyu}f}&|_LS

.TP 5
Generate a 7 char password:

 $ randpass -n7                         
 bcXJQ_g

.TP 5
Generate an alphanumeric password:

 $ randpass -a                          
 EXTebO9TEPMh445cAXhgYD3i4ABfV6ES

.TP 5
Generate a 15 char alphanumeric:

 $ randpass -an15                       
 4qCeooDmF0KjI0I

.TP 5
Generate a random MAC address:

 $ randpass -m                          
 b2:da:07:23:e3:e3

.SH AUTHOR
David Griffiths
